
# Honour Project
# CSI4900 Technical Report

    Author: Junhan Liu
    Supervisor: Dr. Abdulmotaleb El Saddik
    Co-supervisor: Fedwa Lamarti
    Github repository: [https://github.com/jimjimliu/Bicy-Eco-System.git]
    Demo: https://youtu.be/qwFPymhrlKU

## Introduction

> ## Project Goal

The project is to develop a web based application with interface that helps users to monitor and track their physical exercise progress (i.e. exercise like riding a bike or running) over time. Users receive motivation prompts(elaboration follows) while they perform their daily exercises.

The application stores users’ every-time exercises information in the database; every time after users login in, the application displays users’ profile including users’ personal health information and their previous physical activities’ information. The application is able to generate various charts for users to gain a better and intuitive understanding of users’ activity progress: whether they are making any progress during a chosen period of time, their total exercise time, overall energy burned, and etc.

In terms of motivation prompts: the application gives users’ a opportunity to donate the energy (When ones bike or run in a gym using the equipment, equipments would generate energy. We assume this energy generated by users could be recycled.) generated by their activities. Users could select, in the interface, a country to donate their green energy. Of course, all the data would be collected and then displayed for users in the interface.

This is the overall goal of the project and some main functions of it. More detailed functionality description will be illuminated in functionality section.

> ## How to run
 
> - ### To run the application:

Strongly suggest running the system in chrome browser, not IE.

1, install WAMP server for php+postgresql extension configuration. Download WAMP server of 64 bits, you can find it here: http://www.wampserver.com/en/download-wampserver-64bits/ follow the wizard to install it.  

2, After installation check on the quick launch bar(right bottom corner in desktop) to see if WAMP server is running. If it is running, the icon changes colour to green.  

3, Click on WAMP icon from the quick launch bar to open context menu, select PHP -> PHP extensions -> php_pgsql.  

4, Put the project root folder named "project" under c:\WAMP\www\ folder.  

5, Download postgresql from: https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads 

6, Follow the guide to set up password and etc.  

7, Using 'database.txt' to populate the database first. you can also copy the script code into postgresql shell to populate.  

8, Open browser and type http://localhost/project/HomePage.html to start.

> - ### Before you test the system

You need to change the configurations in just one .php file.
Go to connection.php, you will see something like this: 
	

    <?php
    	//connect the databse
    	$dbname ="xxxxx";  //dabase name
    	$user_name = "postgres"; 
    	$pass="xxxxx"; //password
    	$host="localhost";   
    	$port="5432"; //database port

Change the configuration to your own database information.

Also, in folder `python simulation`, you will see this code:

    #return a connection object
    def dbConnection():
        hostname = 'localhost'
        database = 'xxxx'
        port = '5432'
        username = 'postgres'
        password = 'xxxx'

Change configuration to you own database information.
## Development Details
> ## Type of application

Web based application, interacts with postgreSQL database.

> ## Target users

The application is aimed to help individuals that would like to perform daily physical activities to better monitor their progress; at the same time, those who want to keep track of their activities’ data over time.

> ## Functionality description

`User sign up:` 
Signing up an account. Asking for users’ personal health information( i.e. height, weight, age, gender, name, email address, password).

`User preferences:`
When users have signed up for the first time, they will be asked to select a country to donate their green energy. Users could change their choice of country every a period of time.

`User login:`
Allows users to login and allows users to recover their password.

`personal account:`
 Providing a panel which users could choose which category of data they would like to view. Users could view their history physical activities related data including their total exercise time, overall energy generated and donated, how many calories they have burned, their bmi index, and etc. Providing interface that displays whether the user is making any progress over the selected period of time by some charts. Users could select to view the overall energy donation information: a pie/bar chart displays the overall energy donated for each country.

`Display screens:` 
The user can view his profile in a screen, but cannot change information other than email address, and password. When the user is pedaling, we display the information related to his current exercise activity so he can view it as he bikes, such as the date and time of exercising, the duration and the average speed of biking. We then store this information in the database.

`Messages displayed:` 
During the exercising period, messages are displayed for user encouragement, such as: You burned “number” of calories! Great job!”. A sound can be played for encouragement). We also display motivation messages, such as: If you exercise 5 more minutes you will generate “number” of watts. At the end, we display a message like: Thank you, you have donated “number” of watts today.

`log out:` 
If the system has been idle for more than 40 minutes, the system automatically log out the user.

`Email recover:`
By clicking recover email, users enter their registered email. An email recover message will be sent to users registered email address containing users requested personal information.

> ## Technology

>- ### Language
`HTML5` `CSS` `javascript` `SQL`  `PHP`  `jQuery` 
> 
> - ### Tools
 `postgresql 10`, `pgAdmin 4` `WAMP server` 

> - ### Framework
`Chartist.js` `fontAwsome` `jQuery`


## General
 
 - Complete System Flow Chart can be found in folder `flowchat`
 - Source code documentation can be found in foler `documentation`
 - The code is reusable on github, if one is interested in it, you can reuse the code for study purpose and please indicate reference.
